My background

I am a Computer Science Ph.D. candidate at Northwestern University under Dr. Peter Dinda
and a recipient of the Department of Energy Computational Science Graduate Fellowship.
I've become interested in helping domain scientists run their workloads on distributed,
heterogeneous computing systems. This focus is part of the
Constellation Project which enables
frictionless heterogeneous parallelism. My research introduction began with research
within the FTHPC group at Clemson University under Dr. Jon C. Calhoun. Within this
group, I collaborated with Argonne National Laboratory as a visiting student on lossy
data compression research. Our goal was to determine different statistical predictions
that would allow for estimation of lossy compression ratios (more info
here). This had lead to
publications and
awards. Also, I participated in the Student Cluster
Competition at Super Computing (SC) '21 and INDYSCC at SC '22.

David's interests?

The end of Moore's law has resulted in development of new specialized architectures for
computing [1]. AI companies are driving the current accelerator boom, but I find this
question particularly compelling:
How can we leverage emerging AI-focused heterogeneous accelerators to support the
workloads of HPC domain scientists?

I've became interested in utilizing higher-level languages in a performant way. I am
working on a project that brings the ability to run Julia applications across a
distributed system using NVIDIA GPUs. This takes advantage of Julia's abstract array
interface to implement distributed heterogeneous arrays managed by a novel HPC runtime-
Legion (more info here).

Outside of GPUs, I've worked with CGRAs, FPGAs, etc. However, one specific accelerator
that has peaked my interest in Processing in Memory (PIM). There has been countless
prior work in the area of increasing computational speed using processing in memory
(PIM) accelerators. There are a few issues that require a demanding amount of work for
adoption for these newer ideas. This challenge stems from the fact that domain
scientists are often required to rewrite their code using specialized directives to take
advantage of new hardware. Unfortunately, this portability issue isn't unique to PIM-
many emerging AI accelerators face the same barrier. Using the same novel runtime
mentioned above (Legion), I have made progress towards resolving the complexities of
programming PIM systems (more info here).

[1] T. N. Theis and H. . -S. P. Wong, "The End of Moore's Law: A New Beginning for
Information Technology," in Computing in Science & Engineering, vol. 19, no. 2, pp.
41-50, Mar.-Apr. 2017, doi: 10.1109/MCSE.2017.29.
